I'm here to talk about a really
devastating disease it's created a huge
impact on basically everyone's lives
it's killed some of the most well-known
celebrities the most noble Steve Jobs
recently it's called pancreatic cancer
and pancreatic cancer is a devastating
disease only 5.5 percent people who are
initially diagnosed will survive after
five years and one of the main reasons
due to this is that usually once it's
diagnosed the cancer has spread around
the body when the patient has a very
small chance of survival in order to
prevent this late detection we need a
method for early detection meaning a
simple rapid sensitive versatile and
minimally invasive sensor for the early
detection of pancreatic cancer and so
there a variety of proteins are found in
the blood of patients who have
pancreatic cancer there are elevated
levels I show Society one called
mesothelin mesothelin it's highly over
extract by pancreatic cancer but not by
healthy tissue but in addition it's
highly over expressed by these things we
call it non invasive precursor agents
meaning if you can detect this protein
you can detect pancreatic cancer before
it becomes invasive possibly making the
survival rate jump above 50 percent
rather than a measly 5.5 percent so in
order to techniques ultra low
concentrations of mesothelin in your
blood I employed these carbon nanotubes
atom thick tubes of carbon and they're
really the superheroes of science and
material science because they have these
broad applications which lead to
instance of biosensors in my case I was
looking at how the distance between
neighboring carbon nanotubes highly
impacts how electricity is transported
along DOM and so I am really fascinated
by carbon nanotubes I was reading this
really interesting paper in my biology
class and all of a sudden we were
learning about these new things called
anti bias organic molecules that
actually bind specifically to one
protein in my case would be to
mesothelin kind of like a lock-and-key
and so then I thought in my biology
class I was just sitting there behind my
desk looking at this little paper I
thought what if I put this antibody in a
network
carbon nanotubes just wildly on a whim
and that hit me amazing I was very very
happy my biology teacher wasn't as happy
when she found me reading a paper
instead of writing an essay on biology
class so that way had to have then is a
substrate that you can basically support
this network of antibodies and carbon
nanotubes and I thought it had to be
porous to take up this aqueous solution
but also it had to be inexpensive and
readily available filter paper if it
fills all these and basically all you
have to do is create you from dispersion
of these antibodies and carbon nanotubes
are just floating around chillin out and
then you basically just dip coat your
sensor making it really easy to produce
and so here's a visual depiction of the
sensor being created and how you test it
basically it only requires a sixth of a
drop and you just put it on and then you
just measure the change in electrical
potential just an electric parameter so
then in order to attack pancreatic
cancer from the detection of this
protein basically what you have to do is
you have to establish what we call
cutoff level where anything above that
level of mesothelin is considered
positive anything below we concern
egative and so usually it's 10
milligrams per ml for mesothelin so
that's why I chose and so then I ran in
btris a just to make sure it was working
pretty well and it worked spectacularly
actually and then we went into actually
testing human samples we had patients
who had pancreatic cancer and then also
the non vasive precursor lesions you can
see they all fall in this range of 18 to
28 nail grams per ml that's well above
the 10 milligram per a mile cutoff all
these would be found positive by my
sensor meaning that it had 100%
sensitivity towards pancreatic cancer
then we had patients who did not have
pancreatic cancer they're either
perfectly healthy and skipping around or
they had crying pancreatitis meaning an
inflammation of the pancreas the disease
was often mistaken in diagnosis of
pancreatic cancer all these you can see
are below 10 milligrams per ml meaning
that they will all be found negative by
my Center meaning that had
hundred-percent siedel activity towards
pancreatic cancer so it was giving
near-perfect diagnosis of pancreatic
cancer Dutch
moisturizing how we look at cancer
diagnosis
Thanks so then what we had we were
looking at another application of the
sensor we wanted to see if it could
effectively look at how well of
treatment was doing our patient what we
had is five chemotherapy drugs were
given to patients over five weeks and
you can see for each of the five chemo
therapeutic drugs there a distinctive
drop so could reliably monitor how
effective a cancer treatment was and so
what happens is the sensor it's really
revolutionising how we look at cancer
treatment and diagnosis because compared
to the current gold standard of protein
detection and cancer it's a 168 times
faster over 26,000 times less expensive
at three cents and over 400 times more
sensitive and also is limitless
application so you switch out the
antibody and you can detect an entirely
new protein I mean you can look at other
forms of cancer but also you can look at
cancer treatments effectively you could
look at cancer drug resistance because
these are caused by unique mutations in
the DNA producing a unique protein which
you can pick up with my sensor also you
can look at the effectiveness of a
cancer treatment meaning that we are
revolutionising how we look at cancer
treatment personalizing the treatment at
a patient so you don't have that
conventional guess and check method also
could look at other forms of disease
such as in food and water safety ecoli
Salmonella rotavirus and then also you
could look at other blood pathogens such
as AIDS STDs and all those and so it
could look it could operate in any
setting such as a regular checkup but
also in developing nations
revolutionising and possibly saving
thousands of lives in cancer diagnosis
treatment in the biomedical field
[Music]
[Applause]
you